We are going to start a video series about SQL. 

The love language of databases.

Data is not a information. until its stored and processed.

lets take is as a example. 

Ram and 23 is both are different data.
when its stored together only we will able to find the person name is Ram and his age is 23.

like this if we want to find the information/insights from the data. We need to store it as somewhere.

That somewhere is Database. So the database is used to store and retrive the data.
by storing the data into database we couldn't able to do it much. if we need to find the information we need to communicate with the database.

To communicate with the data base we use SQL.(structured Query Language).
Before learning SQL. We need to know some hierachy.

To manage the Database we need DBMS(Data base management System).

In that RDBMS is based on the relations between the data. SQL is a RDBMS.

SQL is used as bridge between the user/system between the Database.

How SQL is interacting with Database by useing its Keywords like Select, Insert,Update and Delete

sounds good , yes SQL is created based on the english query.

The inventors of the SQL Donald D. Chamberlin and Ray Boyce.Published a paper about SQL.

"The Relational Query Language based on English keywords" That is why SQL is sometimes called SEQUEL.(Structured English Query Language).

We will see the simple Demo how SQL ised to find the insights from the datasets.

Downloading the Dataset

See there are multiple ways to import a data in sql.
1.Direct import.
2.Through ETl tools (SSIS).
3.Using bulk cipy and bcp
4.from another table/database/server.

cleaning the data.

Removes -> unwanted data from the dataset.
transformation -> Trnaform the columns

From this part Data Engineering part has finished
Data Analyst part has begin
Find the analysis:
We are going to Find the answers for these questions?
we know who has scored most runs, but we can't know in each country who has secure the most runs
who bolws the most balls entire match
Who has hit the most four and sixes
Who has bolwed the most over?
which country bolwed most maiden overs?





