Golden jubilee for SQl ****50 Years******
Yes we are in the year of 2024 and we are her to celebrate the 50th year of SQL since its created.

What is SQL :- SQl is structed Query Language
Its is used to Manage Data by store and retrieve the data from the database.especially in RDBMS.
If your are familer with Excel that how the SQL table looks like.

Inventors:
A Relational Model of Data for Large Shared Data Banks" appeared. It was a collection of bold and innovative theses. 
The author of this new approach, which consequently changed the world of databases, was Edgar F. Codd of IBM Research Laboratory in San Jose, California

The Relational Model paper published by Edgar F. Codd by "A Relational Model of Data for Large Shared Data Banks"
By used the concepts of Codd Donald D. Chamberlin and Ray Boyce create SEQUEL later called SQL.

History of SQL:
Initially data was stored in the tap. to read or write by using tap.
In 1956 IBM invented RAMAC Disk. the first commercial computer that used a moving-head hard disk drive 
Disks made possible a new kind of software called a database management system, or DBMS.
1960's -->early disk-based systems were sometimes called “navigational".To answer a question in a navigational system, you write a 
program that navigates through the pointer-paths to find the information you want.Eg., Graph or network and hierarichal model
1970 - Only the actual Relational Data Model concepts came into picture. -- Initially IBM refused to implement the relational model becaused it already invested in navigational models.
	Ted Codd’s paper on the relational data model became one of the most widely-referenced papers in all of computer science.
	codd was coined the Term OLAP and "twelve laws of online analytical processing".
	In 1981 Codd later won the prestigious Association of Computing Machinery Turing Award for his work.
1974 -- SEQUEL -- 
	we developed a relational query language based on English keywords, called SEQUEL, and published it in a research report in 1974
	Because Ted’s languages provided a way to query data but didn’t provide any way to update the data.
	Ray Boyce and Codd has joined and invented the Boyce-codd normalization form.
1979 - Relational Software introduced one of the first commercially available implementations of SQL, Oracle V2. The Relational Software is non other than Oracle.
1986 - ANSI and ISO Adopted
then till 2023 new version of SQL will be publishing.

Major SQL Tools:
Oracle  - 1979 ,DB2 - 1983 ,MSSQLServer - 1989 ,PostgreSQL -1996, MYSQL  - 1995

Industries Using SQL:
Finance and Banking ,Healthcare,Retail and E-commerce,Telecommunications,Education,Manufacturing,Government,IT,Transport,Media and Entertainment

Trend : from google

Jobs based on SQL :-
SQL Developer ,SQL Administrator,SQL Data Analyst,Business Analyst,Data Scientist,Data Modeler,Data Engineer

Sample SQL quries:
Select,update,,insert,delete,S

Last but not least ...
Top tech compines like Microsoft , Google , Amazon are using SQL in their Current Data processing and data analsis work.

If you want to starting your carrer in any of the data jobs or you want to switch current job with data job learn SQL and grow.

Thanks 
