Hi Everyone, Welcome to the Channel.

We are going to start a videos about SQL. 

The love language of databases

##The most used language in the Data world. You may be find 1000 of videos about SQL. but this is my way of SQL.

This is a very basic information about SQL and Data. 
if you are good at SQL please skip this video and even if you want some more knowledge on the basics please keep watching till the end.

We all know that data is a information.By storing the information in a useful manner and retreive the useful information is the purpose of DBMS.
Database management system. In that RDBMS is Relational Database manegement System is based on the related information are stored in a one place and use it.
SQL is a RDBMS. So we are going to talk about that in this video.

We all came across the progrss card from our schools. in that we do have our enrolement id,name,subject wise mark and total and the rank. 
if we taken up as this as a example we can have the data like this(Excel). The same way we can able to load it into the database as a table.
The student table contains like this.
Now we are going to learn a SQL from the scratch with a sample Project (Worlds richcest people dataset). 
In this video you are going to learn about

DDL,
DML,
Multiple select options
Filters
in SQL with a mini project.

by End of this video you have enough knowledge on the database and table and a query the table at a minimal level.

About the Project:
 Project explanantion

We need to find the below details fromt he data.

1. Top 10 richest person in the world?
2. Richest Person in each country?
3. Which industry/Country has more peoples?
4. India's Top 5 richest persons
5. How many peple having nt worth more than $100 million?

First to get the dataset. we can download from the google. by directly we can able to load the data from import task. 
or we can create table and write a insert script from that.

Basics structure:

let create database.. usually as a developer we can't create the datase. by admin perople will create the database. 
inside the database we can create the table.

by this stage i can show you the how the db and table have cluped together.

from computer we know that c,d,e, multiple drives are there. in that multiple folders are there inside that we can have files to store image,video,audio

like that drive is a database--> schema is a folder --> table is a file. let's not worry about the database and schema its just a folder name.

BASE PREP

CREAT DATABASE database.

CREATE TABLE:
focus only on the table.as i told earlier a table is like a file.actually contains the data.

The table in SQL is designed as Rows and columns.

Rows as horizontal part. Columns as  vertical pattern helping Rows to identified what data and which type.

while creating the table itself we will define the name of the column and the type of the column it means a data. 
lets say for name we can have string datatype and for numeric we can have either int or float.

lets start our project by creating a table for our dataset. we are having five columns in the file. 
so we are going to create a five columns table. 

lets learn about few of the datatypes here.  int,float and varchar for string types. 
we will post a separate video for datatypes alone. lets focus on creating a table.

CREATE TABLE script

after creating a table we can able to load the data.

LOAD DATA:

for loading the data into table there are mutiple ways to do that.By doing Insert script , 
selecting from another table or tables, import from files. or any ETL tools.

Now here for we are going to do sample for 5 records and by doing import we are going to load full tables.

after loading the data into tables we can able to view the data by doing select statement.

select * from table name. here * represents all the column in the table. 
if we want to select any one or more columns we can able to mention in the select statements.

Query the Data:

before we are selecting full table.now we are going to find what we want from the data.

Filer the data with where clause (=,<>,IN,AND,OR,NOT,BETWEEN)
Restricting the record with Top clause (Distinct and TOP)
combining the data with Group by (Group by)
find the aggregated values using aggregate functions ( MIN,MAX,SUM,COUNT,MAX,AVG)














